MVP_Complete

Build your Portfolio Project (Week 2): MVP Complete
 
Progress
On a scale of 1 to 10 for this week, I would rate my progress at 7 out of 10.
I am measuring my progress based on the milestones that I have achieved and how I have managed to solve several issues that were new to me. For instance, I have been able to identify the necessary steps required to finish the whole project and how to integrate the backend with the frontend which has been a great milestone for the whole project. This week I have managed to handle the project backend and database which have been a crucial milestone.
Given the adjustments that I have made to the project and the current progress, I am very optimistic about my overall progress and I will be able to complete the project on time as I specified on my proposal and MVP. In addition, I have been quite cautious and mindful of the unforeseen challenges that might hinder meeting the deadline, and I am prepared to make necessary adjustments that would enable me to stay on track.
Challenges
My project entailed building a Point of Sales or an inventory app to for businesses that would keep stock records and also the records of the sales made. During the research process, I anticipated the challenges involving designing a user-friendly interface for the front end of the project since I had not come up with a specific idea and also integrating the backend logic. However, I underestimated the challenges in integrating the back and front end to work and run simultaneously. For instance, one of the major challenges I faced in the development process was ensuring seamless communication between the two components. in addition, configuring the database whereby I used MySQL proved to be a challenge which was related to performance and compatibility which was not apparent during the research and planning phase. Therefore, as I delved deeper, I realized that the research I had conducted earlier was insufficient to make the project work and run hence, I needed more time to carry out extensive research and familiarize myself with various approaches used to come up with a finished website.
In order to address the challenges encountered, I had to change my plan to adapt to these challenges in various steps. Firstly, I had to revisit previous topics which involved development workflow on web servers and applications. This gave me a new insight which helped me arrange my projects in sequential steps. Secondly, I had to break down the process of building the website into smaller manageable tasks whereby I would handle both the front end and the back end and ensure each part of the project functioned correctly before moving to the next part. Thirdly, I allocated extra time to carry out in-depth research on specific topics, especially the ones related to MySQL configuration and performance tuning. Therefore, by following the above steps, I have been able to overcome various technical hurdles which has resulted to a smooth workflow.
One of the unexpected non-technical challenges was trying to manage the time required for further research to understand the project and resolve the integration issues. The additional research needed to fully comprehend the technical problems extended my timeline which made my time management to be more challenging. However, in order to overcome time management related challenges, I incorporated strategies such as breaking down big chunks of tasks into smaller goals, and I also sought support from online communities and other peers that are conversant with the challenges I faced. As a result, I was able to stay on track and maintain some progress during the whole process.
